---
layout: home_post
title: Hamlet
categories: content
picture: hamlet
---

# Hamlet
##Week One (September 20)

* Turn-in first close reading assignment.
* Debrief first close reading assignment.

## Creative Close Reading Activity

###Warm-up

* View scene from *Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead* [LINK](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ftd4AMPFk2I&feature=youtu.be&t=6m59s)
* What dramatic choices are made here? How are these choices interpretive? Look for evidence in the text to support your reading.
* Another dramatic interpretation of *Hamlet* [LINK](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EdTnlnJjSqE)

###Instructions

* In groups of no more than 4 or 5, prepare your own dramatic interpretation of a scene from the play. The scene is given below. Be sure to make creative decisions that inform your reading of the play; these decisions can include, but are not limited to, drawing a background on the chalkboard, using props, tone, and blocking. While making these choices, refer to elements of language that stand out in the scene, including tone, imagery, diction, assonance, etc.

* The scene is I.iii 87-123. Three people are needed as actors and one or two others can direct.

###Discussion

* After each group has presented their dramatic interpretation of the play, they will present to the class at least three choices they made for the presentation and explain those choices in the context of the language of the original passage.

Questions for us to consider:

* What creative decisions does a writer make when composing a work? How do these choices inform our reading of that work? What is made explicit and what is left for us to decide?
* What creative decisions does a reader make when reading a work? How do these choices inform what we understand the work to mean?
* What role do plays and acting play in *Hamlet*?